refactor 'Report a bug' part (#127)
pingcap/tidb-dev-guide: src/contribute-to-tidb/report-an-issue.md

## Understanding the issue’s progress and status

Once your issue is created, other contributors might take part in. You need to discuss with them, provide more information they might want to know to reach consensus and make the progress proceeds. But please realize there are always more pending issues than contributors are able to handle, and especially TiDB community is a global one, contributors reside all over the world and they might already be very busy with their own work and life. Please be patient! If your issue gets stale for some time, it's okay to ping the reviewers and asignees, or take it to [internal.tidb.io](https://internals.tidb.io) for more attention.

## Disagreement with a resolution on the issue tracker

As humans, we will have differences of opinions from time to time. First and foremost, please be respectful that care, thought, and volunteer time went into the resolution.
With this in mind, take some time to consider any comments made in association with the resolution of the issue. On reflection, the resolution steps may seem more reasonable than you initially thought.

> If you still feel the resolution is incorrect, then raise a thoughtful question on [internal.tidb.io](https://internals.tidb.io). Further argument and disrespectful discourse on [internal.tidb.io](https://internals.tidb.io) after a consensus has been reached amongst the committers is unlikely to win any converts.

Reviewer: What is disrespectful discourse...?

Author: What do you mean? It's just "disrespectful", like insults and aggressive words.

Reviewer: Sorry I misunderstood the sentence

Reviewer: btw I think the last sentence may be redundant. 
```suggestion
If you still feel the resolution is incorrect, then raise a thoughtful question on [internal.tidb.io](https://internals.tidb.io) for wider attention and discussion.
```

Author: Actually this section is not from my hand, I adapted from the CPython development guide. As I understand, this sentence is to persuade some contributors to respect the committers' decision, and not keep pushing their own ideas even after there is a consensus among committers. For example when the author's opinion is different from the committers'. From my own experience in Python community, this is an important part and something you must obey to get promoted.
I don't really insist on this sentence.

Reviewer: ok, lgtm. Just thought it a little bit wordy for the case of tidb community.

## Checking if an issue already exists

The first step before filing an issue report is to see whether the problem has already been reported. You can [use the search bar to search existing issues](https://docs.github.com/en/github/administering-a-repository/finding-information-in-a-repository/using-search-to-filter-issues-and-pull-requests). This doesn't always work, and sometimes it's hard to know what to search for, so consider this extra credit. We won't mind if you accidentally file a duplicate report. Don't blame yourself if your issue is closed as duplicated. We highly recommend if you are not sure about anything of your issue report, you can turn to [internal.tidb.io](https://internals.tidb.io) for a wider audience and ask for discussion or help.

## Filing an issue

> If the problem you’re reporting is not already in the issue tracker, you can [open a GitHub issue](https://docs.github.com/en/issues/tracking-your-work-with-issues/creating-an-issue) with your GitHub account. TiDB uses issue template for different kinds of issues. Issue templates are a bundle of questions to collect necessary information about the problem so it's easy for other contributors to participate. For example a bug report issue template consists of four questions:
> 
>   - Minimal reproduce step.
>   - What did you expect to see?
>   - What did you see instead?
>   - What is your TiDB version?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the problem you're reporting is not already in the issue tracker, you can [open a GitHub issue](https://docs.github.com/en/issues/tracking-your-work-with-issues/creating-an-issue) with your GitHub account. TiDB uses issue template for different kinds of issues. Issue templates are a bundle of questions to collect necessary information about the problem to make it easy for other contributors to participate. For example, a bug report issue template consists of four questions:

* Minimal reproduce step.
* What did you expect to see?
* What did you see instead?
* What is your TiDB version?
```

Answering these questions give the details about your problem so other contributors or TiDB users could pick up your issue more easily. 

> As previous section shows, duplicated issues should be reduced. To help others who encountered the problem find your issue, except for problem details answered in the issue template, a descriptive title which contains information that might be unique to it also helps. This can be the components related to or database feature used, the conditions that trigger the bug, or part of the error message if there is any. 

Reviewer 3: I guess you meant `This can be the components related to database feature used` instead of `This can be the components related to or database feature used`?

Author: This sentence is from the current TiDB dev guide. I think it's meaning is "components related to your issue or database feature related to your issue". Let's rephrase the wording.

Reviewer 3: Ok, I see.

## Making good issues

> Except for a good title and detailed issue message, you can also add suitable labels to your issue via [\label](https://prow.tidb.io/command-help?repo=pingcap%2Ftidb#type), especially which component the issue belongs to. Many committers and contributors only focus on certain subsystems of TiDB. Setting the appropriate component is important for getting their attention.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Except for a good title and detailed issue message, you can also add suitable labels to your issue via [/label](https://prow.tidb.io/command-help?repo=pingcap%2Ftidb#type), especially which component the issue belongs to. Many committers and contributors only focus on certain subsystems of TiDB. Setting the appropriate component is important for getting their attention.
```

If you are able to, you should take more considerations on your issue:

>   - Does the feature fit well into TiDB's architecture? Will it scale and keep TiDB flexible for the future, or will the feature restrict TiDB in the future?
>   - Is the feature a significant new addition (rather than an improvement to an existing part)? If yes, will the community commit to maintaining this feature?
>   - Does this feature align well with currently ongoing efforts?
>   - Does the feature produce added value for TiDB users or developers? Or does it introduce the risk of regression without adding relevant user or developer benefit? 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Does the feature fit well into TiDB's architecture? Will it scale and keep TiDB flexible for the future, or will the feature restrict TiDB in the future?
* Is the feature a significant new addition (rather than an improvement to an existing part)? If yes, will the community commit to maintaining this feature?
* Does this feature align well with currently ongoing efforts?
* Does the feature produce additional value for TiDB users or developers? Or does it introduce the risk of regression without adding relevant user or developer benefit?
```

Deep thoughts could help the issue proceed faster and help build your own reputation in the community.

> ## Understanding the issue’s progress and status

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Understanding the issue's progress and status
```

> Once your issue is created, other contributors might take part in. You can [\cc](https://prow.tidb.io/command-help?repo=pingcap%2Ftidb#cc) reviewers to request reviews. You need to discuss with them, provide more information they might want to know, address their comments to reach consensus and make the progress proceeds. But please realize there are always more pending issues than contributors are able to handle, and especially TiDB community is a global one, contributors reside all over the world and they might already be very busy with their own work and life. Please be patient! If your issue gets stale for some time, it's okay to ping the reviewers and asignees, or take it to [internal.tidb.io](https://internals.tidb.io) for more attention.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once your issue is created, other contributors might take part in. You can [/cc](https://prow.tidb.io/command-help?repo=pingcap%2Ftidb#cc) reviewers to request reviews. You need to discuss with them, provide more information they might want to know, address their comments to reach consensus and make the progress proceeds. But please realize there are always more pending issues than contributors are able to handle, and especially TiDB community is a global one, contributors reside all over the world and they might already be very busy with their own work and life. Please be patient! If your issue gets stale for some time, it's okay to ping the reviewers and assignees, or take it to [internal.tidb.io](https://internals.tidb.io) for more attention.
```

The concept "reviewer" is only active for a PR, not an issue. Do you think the original content a proper expression?

Reviewer 2: FWIW I often use the sentence from https://infra.apache.org/patch.html

> Be patient if your patch is not applied as fast as you'd like (open source developers are all volunteers, often doing the development in their spare time) or a developer asks you to make changes to the patch. If you do not receive any feedback in a reasonable amount of time (say, a week or two), feel free to send a follow-up e-mail to the developer list.

Author: I can change the word to 'other participants'. I don't mean to give a sample sentence for others to  use. Just a warm remind here.

## Disagreement with a resolution on the issue tracker

> As humans, we will have differences of opinions from time to time. First and foremost, please be respectful that care, thought, and volunteer time went into the resolution.
> With this in mind, take some time to consider any comments made in association with the resolution of the issue. On reflection, the resolution steps may seem more reasonable than you initially thought.
> If you still feel the resolution is incorrect, then raise a thoughtful question on [internal.tidb.io](https://internals.tidb.io). Further argument and disrespectful discourse on [internal.tidb.io](https://internals.tidb.io) after a consensus has been reached amongst the committers is unlikely to win any converts.
> As a reminder, issues closed by a committer have already been carefully considered. Please do not reopen a closed issue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As humans, we will have differences of opinions from time to time. First and foremost, please be respectful that care, thought, and volunteer time went into the resolution.

With this in mind, take some time to consider any comments made in association with the resolution of the issue. On reflection, the resolution steps may seem more reasonable than you initially thought.

If you still feel the resolution is incorrect, then raise a thoughtful question on [internal.tidb.io](https://internals.tidb.io). Further argument and disrespectful discourse on [internal.tidb.io](https://internals.tidb.io) after a consensus has been reached amongst the committers is unlikely to win any converts.
```

I think the "reopen" part has already handled by permission that almost only committers can reopen an issue.

BTW, I hope we can have a guide on resolution candidates. cc @bb7133

Author: Checked the GitHub permission model, seems issue author seems could only reopen issue closed by themselves but not committers. We can remove the sentence.
